


                                  7

harvest - increasing expenses. The higher ranges of costs are usually

attributable to some adverse condition or reason and are of little signifi-

cance in considering the usual range.

        Not enough is known about the individual firms' operations to pro-

vide complete reasons for costs being high or low. The data do not show

any consistent relationship between volume of fruit handled and level of

costs. In each volume group there is a wide range of costs for both picking

and hauling, indicating the influence of factors other than volume. For

hauling, the average distance hauled, the idle capacity of the equipment

owned and the type of fruit hauled doubtless affected the over-all season

hauling cost per box. For picking, costs cannot decrease beyond a certain

point because of the large proportion of labor costs, some of which are piece

rates and do not fluctuate with volume picked. The proportion of different

kinds and varieties of fruit affect picking cost differences among firms.

Seedlings are more expensive to pick than budded oranges. Temples and

tangelos have been included in oranges. A few murcotts have been included

in tangerines which are more expensive to pick.

        Management decisions probably affect citrus picking and hauling costs

to a considerable extent. The operation of picking and hauling fruit is only

one segment of the total business operation, whether the firm be a citrus

dealer, packinghouse, or processor. Obtaining a large and continuous volume

of fruit may have advantages to the firm that outweigh the advantage of

merely achieving low cost in the picking and hauling operation.

        Total picking costs for 27 firms varied from 31.4 cents to 73.0 cents

per box for oranges, and from 23.1 cents to 58.3 cents per box for grapefruit.

The range in cost for picking tangerines was from 82.3 cents to $1.68 per box

for 23 firms (Table 2).

 
