





        Pickinq.--This is the operation of getting the fruit off the tree and

into the highway truck, commonly termed "picking and loading" or "roadsiding."

The principal costs of performing this service are labor, fuel, repairs, taxes,

licenses, insurance and depreciation for the grove trucks, crew trucks, trac-

tors, loading machines and other picking equipment, and administrative expense,

        Picking costs, as shown in Table 1, include all amounts paid for direct

labor for picking and delivery to the roadside, grove truck expense, and a por-

tion of overhead and administrative expenses. Picking labor was allocated to

the various types of fruit from payroll analyses or estimated piece rates.

Fuel and repairs were prorated on a box basis equally to all kinds of fruit.

Certain overhead expenses, which tend to be fixed, were distributed between

the several types of fruit in the ratio of 1.00 to grapefruit, 1.50 to oranges

and 3.00 to tangerines.

        The methods of picking and handling fruit (tree-to-roadside operation)

such as picking in boxes, tractor baskets, grove trailers, and pallet boxes are

mixed among the various operators. A single operator may use two or more

methods. The method used affects the cost of labor as shown in Table I as well

as the distribution among classes of labor. For example, picking in boxes re-

quired loading and driving labor for the grove truck, whereas some other method

would eliminate loading. Thus, an operator using some crews with the box

method and some with other picking methods would have in the aggregate a labor

distribution which would not represent either single method exactly.

        Labor costs for handling citrus in boxes are higher than for the other

methods, especially if the fruit is destined for a packinghouse. The princa'y-l

difference in 1963-64 was in the loading, including grove drivers, which ave,-

aged 3 cents more for box-fruit for packinghouses.

 
